# Exercise 2 - Introducing Spring Kafka

## Part 1 - Exploring the project

1. Open [spring-kafka-basics](./../spring-kafka-basics) project.
2. Build the project using IDE or Maven. You can skip the tests at this stage, as we will run them one by one afterwards.
   ```
   ./mvnw clean verify -DskipTests
   ```
3. Run [KafkaBasicsApplication.java](../spring-kafka-basics/src/main/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics/KafkaBasicsApplication.java)
   from within the IDE.
4. Take a look at [MessageListener class](../spring-kafka-basics/src/main/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics/MessageListener.java).
   Its task is to react on Kafka messages coming in.
5. Take a look at [MessageController class](../spring-kafka-basics/src/main/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics/MessageController.java).
   It is a simple REST controller that sends every string received via POST to Kafka using 
   [MessageSender class](../spring-kafka-basics/src/main/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics/MessageSender.java).
6. Take a look at [application.yml](../spring-kafka-basics/src/main/resources/application.yml) paying special attention  
   to the Kafka-related configuration.
7. To see it in action, use [send-message.http](../spring-kafka-basics/send-message.http) to send some messages.

## Part 2 - Automated testing

The `spring-kafka-basics` project contains examples of two different ways for writing automated tests using Kafka.
The first of them ([MessageSenderKafkaEmbeddedKafkaTest](../spring-kafka-basics/src/test/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics))
uses [EmbeddedKafka](https://docs.spring.io/spring-kafka/api/org/springframework/kafka/test/context/EmbeddedKafka.html).
The second one ([MessageSenderTestContainersTest](../spring-kafka-basics/src/test/java/com/mikemybytes/kafka/basics/MessageSenderTestContainersTest.java))
uses [Testcontainers](https://www.testcontainers.org/) project instead. Both tests make use of [Awaitility](https://github.com/awaitility/awaitility)
to address asynchronous processing aspects.

Run both tests to see them in action. Do you know what are the differences between these two approaches?

## Part 3 - Kafka consumer groups

1. Keep the application running.
2. Send multiple messages using method described in Step 7. of Part 1.
3. Restart the application. What happened with the messages that you've just sent?
4. Try to reconfigure the application, so the previously sent messages are being read again on each restart.
   You can find a hint within the name of this part ;)
